# Usage of AI tools
- The AI tool I chose to use for this task is Github Copilot with **Claude Sonnet 4.6** model, as I have found it be particularly helpful for software development tasks. I have also provided it with a set of instructions in [.github/copilot-instructions.md](.github/copilot-instructions.md) file, which I found to be helpful in guiding the AI tool to work in a way that is more aligned with my preferences and the requirements of the task. I have also made sure to keep the instructions up to date as I went along with the implementation, which helped me get better suggestions from the AI tool and also made it easier for me to review the changes it made.
- I experimented with providing both lower level instructions (e.g. how to structure the tests, how to handle environment variables, etc.) and higher level instructions (e.g. work in small increments, always write tests before implementation, etc.) and I found that both were helpful. Evenutally I settled with telling it what I want to achieve at a higer lever (for example, *I would like to use our custom login mechanism on frontend such that we choose one route which would require this new authentication*) and it would follow my instructions in breaking down the problem into smaller steps and asking for my feedback and approval before moving on to the next step. This made the changes much easier to review and also gave me more confidence, especially because I instructed it to always write tests before implementation, which meant that I could see the failing tests first and understand what exactly is not working before looking at the implementation.
- Another particularly helpful instruction was telling it to always ask me for clarification if it's not sure about something and not just assume what I wanted. On a couple of occasions, I realized that I had given it ambigous instructions and that it could be interpreted in multiple ways, which also helped me to think about prompts in a more precise and clear manner.
- Since I have limited understanding of the frameworks and libraries used in the project, I found it particularly helpful to ask the AI tool for suggestions on how to implement certain features or how to use certain libraries. I could reason about the codebase on my own, but the fact that I could describe what I want to achieve and Copilot doing all the work made everything much easier and faster. My interaction with the codebase almost exclusively consisted of me describing to Copilot what I want to achieve and it suggesting the implementation, which I would then review and ask for changes if I thought something could be done differently.
- All in all, I found this interaction loop to be pretty enjoyable and efficient, though it is a bit heavy on token usage.